==============
Protected Data
==============

Data stored on Nightingale may contain sensitive, regulated information. While Nightingale is set up to protect this data, users are directly responsible for protecting it. 

All downloads (transferring data *off* of Nightingale to somewhere else) are monitored and will be investigated.  If you need to download your results which don't contain sensitive data from Nightingale, submit a ticket (:ref:`help`) detailing what data you need to download, why you need it, and how you intend to download it.  Please do this before you start downloading, ideally at least one business day before, or else you're likely to get emails from the admin team asking what you're doing.  

All user data on Nightingale is stored in directories that have group permissions set so that members of that group can read the data, but no other users on the system can read it.  You should not attempt to read data belonging to groups you're not a member of.  If you accidentally discover you have access to user data from a group you're not a member of (or a group you're not supposed to be a member of) please notify us via a ticket immediately (:ref:`help`).  Most PIs (and individual non-PI users) will only be a member of one group.  However, in the rare case that you are a member of multiple groups on Nightingale, understand that you have a separate responsibility to each group to safeguard its data.  There are system checks to detect copying user data from the area owned by one group to an area owned by a different group.  If you're not a PI, just don't do this.  If you are a PI of multiple groups on Nightingale and you have legitimate reason to copy data from one group to another, please submit a ticket at least one business day before you do the moving.  Moving the files will definitely set of security alerts, so please let us know before you do that.  
