
Good User Best Practices (Good Citizenship)
============================================

As a user on Nightingale, we don't have explicit requirements of what
you do and don't do. We'd like people to generally use the resources
carefully and try not to do things that impact other users. Mostly there
are automatic protections (quotas and so on) but sometimes there aren't.

Dedicated Interactive Nodes
--------------------------------

If you have a dedicated interactive node (if the name of the node you
log into on Nightingale doesn't have "login" in its name) then that node
is generally dedicated to your use. You may use as many resources on it
as you like. You can run lots of process if you want. That may not be
efficient, but you're not effecting anyone else. Keep in mind, if one
user in your group fills your interactive node up with processes, and
someone else in your group wants to run something but can't, you'll need
to work out within your group who gets to run.

Computational Nodes
------------------------

If you run jobs on Nightingale's compute nodes, the job system is
responsible for making sure you have the resources that you need. If
you're running jobs and they seem to be running more slowly than they
should, please let us know by submitting a ticket. You shouldn't be able
to do anything to harm other users using jobs; the job system should
keep everyone allocated.

Keep in mind, all users are responsible for using their allocation
wisely. If someone in your group uses up a ton of allocation, that's the
responsibility of the PI who's in charge of the allocation.

Login Nodes
--------------

Nightingale has login nodes that are used for compiling codes and
controlling computational job resources. Login nodes are **shared**
between users. It's fine to edit files there, it's fine to compile codes
there. But please don't run any computationally-intensive application on
the login nodes. It will bog down the nodes for everyone and cause
delays in others' usage of those nodes.

| 
