=====================================
Getting Help (Submitting Tickets)
=====================================

The parent page to this page ("") is the top of the public user
documentation for the NCSA Nightingale cluster computer system. If you
have any questions as a user, look on that page and on the pages linked
to the left. You should be able to find information about how to do what
you need to on Nightingale.

However, sometimes the explanation in the documentation isn't detailed
enough, or sometimes it doesn't cover the case you need, or maybe we
just didn't create documentation for that particular thing, or somehow
you think you know what to do but it's not working. If any of that
happens, or if you have other questions, **please submit a ticket**. A
ticket is a way to keep track of your conversation with us. Create a
ticket by sending an email to help@ncsa.illinois.edu. Start the subject
line with "NIGHTINGALE" and then a few words about what's wrong. A good
subject line might be "NIGHTINGALE: SPSS package isn't working" or
"NIGHTINGALE: I can't log in". Then in the body of the message, put as
much information as you can. Say when the problem happens (all the time?
just sometimes? Just when you do X first?). Describe what you would
expect to happen (if any) and what it is doing. Please say whether this
is the first time you've tried this, or if it worked last (week/month)
but now is not working.

You should receive an email back fairly quickly saying the ticket is
being created. You should then hear back again by email within one
business day day from someone on the Nightingale team asking you more
details about the specific problem, perhaps with suggestions for things
to try or asking you to run tests to try to characterize the problem.
Please do answer those emails, so that we know what the answers are.

If you don't hear back from someone within two business days, something
has gone wrong in the ticketing system. In that case, please email
csteffen@illinois.edu and mjaromin@illinois.edu and let us know that you
haven't received a reply to your original ticket.

|
